1. **How is data organized in data marts? What are the key data-related disadvantages of the current system? The case talks about redundancy, synchronization, and latency. What does each of these mean? Develop an example for each.**
   1. Data mart is usually smaller repositories of information that are for a specific business unit or process. There are 3 types of data marts. In an independent mart, transactional data is collected, transformed, and stored in data marts. Usually data is organized by function: customer data, partner data, competitor data and enterprise data. 
   2. Reasons: 
      1. The effectiveness of the mart deteriorates because the detailed customization makes it virtually impossible to share information across the organization.
      2. Hard and slow to change data mart code
   3. Redundancy:
      1. The same piece of data is held in different data marts. Or the same data has been processed more than twice by different data marts. The same data is repeated again, which results in data redundancy. 
      2. For example, in exhibit 6A, the four access points had been completely sampled by Systems A and B by the time System C was building its database.
   4. Synchronization: 
      1. The process of establishing data consistency between two or more databases, automatically synchronize the same data changes back and forth. 
      2. All data is stored in a single place, giving business users access to a single view of the data. Any changes in the way the data was collected at the transactional level flowed directly and immediately to the business users. So  data synchronization is assured. 
   5.  Latency:
      1. The time it takes for a business user to restore or retrieve source data from a data warehouse. 
      2. In EDW, all data is in a single place so retrieving data is easy and fast. 
2. **How does the enterprise data warehouse resolve these issues?**
   **Explain what ETL is (you'll need to find this in other resources). Why is this critical for the data warehouse case?**
   1. All data is stored in a <u>single place</u>, giving business users a <u>single source</u> to access a <u>single view</u> of the data. Any <u>changes</u> in the way the data was collected at the <u>transactional</u> level flowed <u>directly and immediately</u> to the business users. So data <u>synchronization</u> is assured and <u>latency</u> is reduced. 
   2. ETL means e<u>xtract-transform-load</u>. 
      1. Extraction of data <u>from sources</u> of data. We have to <u>specify precisely</u> the information that should be taken to obtain the suitable data and <u>refer to unambiguous business terms</u> and <u>connect</u> them with specific data in the system.
      2. <u>Transformation</u> of data <u>to the forms</u> that allows for appropriate business application. 
         1. Integrate the formats of data coming from different systems.
         2. <u>Semantic integration</u> or a uniform <u>interpretation</u> of data. We have to be precise at the interpretation of data and give an unambiguous definition of the terms. 
         3. Verify the quality of the data 
      3. Loading data into a warehouse. Repeatedly load data into the warehouse at strictly defined time intervals, depending on business needs, so that the warehouse contains the history of business events that enables to analyze changes over time.
3. **Looking at the change in personnel, what does the data warehouse change in personnel utilization? Which activities increase and which decrease? Why do these change happen?**
   1. Increase: There are more database analysts and query programmers. Because EDW is a consolidation system. To get the data user wants and translate it to the information needed requires more analysts about database queries to analyze. 
   2. Decrease: There is no network administrator. Because there is no deed to connect different database and build a network around different databases. 
4. **Why do companies have data marts or data warehouses? Why not keep the data in the transactional system? The case doesn't really explain this. You'll need to look through other resources.**
   1. To conduct business analyses without interference in online transaction processing
      1. Business analyses usually require complex and time-consuming calculations
      2. However, this should not influence the daily operational work of systems that contain the source data
      3. That's why it has to be separated from transactional system
   2. To obtain a global picture of a company's data
      1. Integrate data from different sources, giving a thorough picture of the business events in a given enterprise
   3. To gain access to historical data
      1. Past information can be stored in data warehouse and accessed later for future business analyses
   4. To standardize information
      1. Make different departments interpret performance indicators identically and calculate them in a homogenous manner
      2. The problem of many versions of the truth depending on the author of a given report is eliminated
   5. 

