1. After reading Case A, 

   1. Formulate (in math) an optimization model for this problem. That is, specify the decision variables, the objective function, the constraints, and the parameters of the model. 

      1. *The **decision variables** are the numbers of tickets sold for each route, shown in the following table:* 

      2. |         | Houston  | Chicago  | Miami    | Phoenix |
         | ------- | -------- | -------- | -------- | ------- |
         | Houston | -        | $x_1$    | $x_2$    | $x_3$   |
         | Chicago | $x_4$    | -        | $x_5$    | $x_6$   |
         | Miami   | $x_7$    | $x_8$    | -        | $x_9$   |
         | Phoenix | $x_{10}$ | $x_{11}$ | $x_{12}$ | -       |

      3. *The **objective function** would be maximize revenues over a single bank, equal to*  

         $123x_1+80x_2+110x_3+130x_4+98x_5+88x_6+72x_7+105x_8+68x_9+115x_{10}+90x_{11}+66x_{12}$

      4.  *The **constraints** are:*

         1.  *Total passengers of the flights from each origin/destination cannot exceed the capacity of the flight, which means* $x_1+x_2+x_3≤240$, $x_4+x_5+x_6≤240$, $x_{10}+x_{11}+x_{12}≤240$, $x_4+x_7+x_{10}≤240$, $x_1+x_8+x_{11}≤240$, $x_3+x_6+x_{9}≤240$ . 
         2.  *The number of tickets sold for each route cannot exceed the demand for each city pair, which means* $x_1≤123$, $x_2≤80$, $x_3≤110$, $x_4≤130$, $x_5≤98$, $x_6≤88$,  $x_7≤72$, $x_8≤105$, $x_9≤68$, $x_{10}≤115$, $x_{11}≤90$, $x_{12}≤66$. 
         3.  *All decision variables have to be **positive integers**, meaning* $x_1,x_2,...,x_{12}≥0\ and\  x_1,x_2,...,x_{12}=int$ . 

   2. Construct a spreadsheet model of your formulation and solve it using Excel’s Solver. 

      *Seen in excel spreadsheet.* 

   3. What is the optimal solution (passenger booking strategy) and corresponding optimal revenue? 

      *The **optimal solution** is shown in the following table, and the **optimal revenue** is 185593 dollars.* 

      |         | Houston | Chicago | Miami | Phoenix |
      | ------- | ------- | ------- | ----- | ------- |
      | Houston | 0       | 123     | 80    | 110     |
      | Chicago | 84      | 0       | 94    | 62      |
      | Miami   | 72      | 100     | 0     | 68      |
      | Phoenix | 115     | 17      | 66    | 0       |

2. After reading Case B, answer the following two questions: 

   1. Air France asks BlueSky to reserve five seats on BlueSky’s flights from Miami to Houston, to be used for connecting Air France passengers. Air France offers to pay $104 per seat. Should BlueSky accept the offer? 

      *We could know from the sensitivity report that the allowable decrease for the total demand of flights from Miami to Houston is 42, while the price Air France only needs 5 reserved seats, meaning the demand decreases 5, within the allowable decrease. So we could then calculate the profit if BlueSky accepts the offer. The new profit would be* $the\ profit\ in\ Case\ A+shadow\ price*RHS\ change+Air\ France\ payment$ ,equal to $185593+100*(-5)+104*5=185613$. *The revenue will increase by 20 dollars. So BlueSky should agree to the offer.*

   2. In addition to the offer in (1), Air France also offers BlueSky $285 per seat to reserve 10 seats for passengers traveling from Miami to Chicago. Should BlueSky accept this offer? 

      *The simultaneous change is $\frac{10+5}{42}+\frac{10}{17}=0.945<1$ so 100% rule will apply. After applying 100% rule, we could calculate the new profit as the previous question,* $the\ profit\ in\ Case\ A+shadow\ price*RHS\ change+Air\ France\ payment$ *,equal to* $185593+100*(-15)+192*(-10)+285*10+104*5=185543$. *So BlueSky would lose \$50 if accepting these two offers together. BlueSky shouldn't accept the offer.*

3. After reading case C answer the following questions. Case C is independent of case B: 

   1. Assume that BlueSky purchases three identical aircrafts. How many coach seats should BlueSky order for the three new aircraft? 

      *~~318~~ 316 seats for each new aircraft with the maximum profit $67783 .* 

   2. Now suppose that the three aircraft can be different sizes, between 240 and 380 coach seats. 

      1. How do you think the three aircraft should be allocated among the six routes? In other words, should the same aircraft always fly the same routes? Why or why not? (Hint: You do not need an optimization model to answer this question). 
   
      *Since the demand for each flight from each spoke to hub is almost the same amount of demand for each flight from hub to each spoke, the three aircraft should be assigned based on the order of their capacities to satisfy each demand at the most extent. The biggest plane should be assigned to the route between Chicago and Houston. Similarly, the second biggest plane should be assigned to the route between Phoenix and Houston, and the smallest one should be assigned to the route between Miami and Houston. So basically the same aircraft should fly the same routes based on the capacity and demand.* 
   
   2. How many coach seats should BlueSky order for each of the three new aircraft? 
   
         *The capacity for flights between Chicago and Houston should be 318. The capacity for flights between Miami and Houston should be 245. The capacity for flights between Phoenix and Houston should be 271.* 
   
   3. Because it is cheaper to manufacture three identical planes, Airbus is offering BlueSky a one‐time, $5 million discount if it will order three identical aircraft. Should BlueSky take the discount? In deciding this, you may assume that BlueSky operates 3 banks per weekday through Houston, and that the revenues and demands for every bank on every weekday are equal to the demands in Tables 1 and 2 of the (A) Case. Assume 52 weeks a year and 5 weekdays per week. 
   
      |                                                           |            |
      | --------------------------------------------------------- | ---------- |
      | revenue                                                   | 216007     |
      | profit (identical) per bank                               | $68,167    |
      | profit (not identical) per bank                           | $77,287    |
      | Additional profit per bank operating not identical planes | $9,120     |
      | Total additional profit per year                          | $7,113,600 |
   
      *After calculation, we could know that if BlueSky orders three identical planes, BlueSky would lose \$7,113,600  per year than not identical planes. It's more than the $5 million discount Airbus offers. So BlueSky should not take the discount.* 