1. whoami. The command is used to see the username.
2. pwd. The command is used to see the current directory.
3. ls. The command is used to see the list of files and folders in the current directory. 
   1. ls -lh list all files and folders by details.
4. cd. The command is used to change the directory.
   1. cd .. goes to upper directory.
   2. cd <folder> goes into requested folder.
   3. cd ~/ goes into home directory. 
5. mkdir. The command is used to create a directory.
6. nano. Nano is an editor. It used to create or change a document.
7. cp. The command is used to copy a file into a folder or somewhere else.
8. mv. The command is used to move (cut/paste) a file or folder.
9. rm. The command is used to delete a file or folder.
   1. rm -r deletes a folder.
10. clear. The command is used to clear the screen.
11. top. It is used to display the users and resources on the machine. 
    1. htop is another version that is a little bit fancier.
12. wget "url" is used to download a file.'
    1. In mac, wget is not istalled.
       1. You can install wget through brew.
       2. You can instead, use curl -O "url" to download a file.
13. head. It is used to show the top rows of a file.
    1. head -n shows first n rows of a file.
14. tail. It is used to show the last rows of a file.
    1. tail -n shows the last n rows of a file.
15. cat. It is used to display the file on the screen.
16. wc. It is used as wordcount.
    1. wc shows how many lines, how many words, and how many characters.
    2. wc - l, shows numbers, wc - w shows how many words, wc -c shows how many characters.
17. shuf. It is used to create a sample of a file. 
    1. shuf -n takes n randomly selected rows of a file.
    2. shuf is not installed on mac. You can install "coreutils" first, then gshuf will be the command.
18. \>. This character is used as an assignment. For example, I can save the first 5 rows of a file into a new file using this command.
    1. head -5 file > new_file
19. |. This is the piping character. Means the output of the command before that, will be the input into the command after that. 
20. grep. This command search for a pattern in a file.
    1. ex. grep video Live.csv shows the rows in the Live.csv where the video is available on the row.
21. cut. This command is used to take a section of a file. 
    1. ex. cut -d "," -f 2 c.csv means get the second command of c.csv. 
22. uniq. This command is used to find the uniq values in a file.
    1. uniq -c counts how many times each value has been repeated.
    2. uniq -u shows uniq values.
    3. uniq -d finds duplicate.
23. tr. It is a translation command. It reads from screen.
    1. tr [:lower] [:upper:] changes lower letters to capital letters.
    2. tr [a-z] [A-Z] changes lower letters to capital letters.
    3. tr -d "_" deletes "_" from the screen.
24. sort. This command sorts the values. 
    1. sort -r sorts in reverse.