# Troubleshooting CSS

- Isolate
  - Build small sections in codepen or new file
- Use Dev Tools
  - Remove CSS properties
- DELETE THINGS until it works.
  - This is where it's important to commit & push changes.

------

# Difficulty Warning

- HTML & CSS are the easy part of this class.
- If you are struggling, get help immediately.

Students in this course are expected to understand programming fundamentals. The information in this lecture should be review.

------

# What is Javascript?

- Object-oriented
- Dynamically-typed
- Designed to:
  - Run in a browser
  - Interact with a webpage

------

## Capabilities

- Add/remove HTML
- Change attributes
- Change styles
- Perform calculations
- Provide user interaction
- Fetch data from external server

------

## History

- Invented in 1995 by Brendan Eich @ Netscape
- Maintained by ECMA
- Version 5 published in 2009
- Version 6 published in 2015

------

## ECMAScript

The new Javascript standard.

------

## ECMA

European Computer Manufacturers Association

------

## ECMAScript Versions

------

## ECMAScript 5 / ES5

Supported in all modern browsers.

------

## ECMAScript 6 / ES6 / ES2015

Can be used by "transpiling".

------

## Transpiling

Converting from one language to another similar language.

------

# How to Add Javascript to your Page

The `<script>` tag

------

## `<script>` Tags

- Use the `src` attribute to specify a file.
- Enclose javascript code within the element.

------

## `<script>` Tag Usage

- Can go anywhere in `<head>` or `<body>`

- Often added at end of `<body>` 

  - This loads Javascript after page is loaded.

------

# Javascript Syntax

- Statements end with a semicolon.
- Comments start with `//`.
- Use single or double quotes for strings.

```js
// Alert the user - this creates a popup with the text 'Hello world!'
alert('Hello world!');
```

------

## Variables

- Store information
- Initialized with `var` keyword.
- Variable names must start with a letter.
- **Dynamically typed** 
  - No need to specify number vs string, etc.

```js
var firstName = 'Joe';
var age = 28;
```

------

## Data Types

- number
- string
- boolean
- array
- object
- Special types:
  - null
  - undefined

------

### Data Types Note

- This course assumes familiarity with basic data types.
- Ask for help if these are not all familiar!

------

### Number

- Can represent integers and decimals

```js
var count = 10;
```

------

### String

- Represents text data.
- Has built-in methods like:
  - `search()`
  - `split()`

------

### Boolean

- Either `true` or `false`.

```js
var errors = false;
```

------

### Array

- Represents a series of values.

```js
var states = ["Missouri", "Illinois", "Kansas"];
```

------

### Object

- Key value pairs.
- Keys are strings.
- Values can be anything.

```js
var person = { first: "Britton", last: "Clapp" };
```

------

### Null

- Represents a nonexistent value.
- Usually intentional.
- Evaluates as "falsy".
- Means <u>"nothing", "empty", or "value unknown".</u>

```js
var age = null;
```

------

### <u>Undefined</u>

- A variable that has ***not*** been assigned a value. 

```js
var test;
if (test === undefined) {
  console.log("You have to define it first!");
}
```

------

## Operators

------

### Assignment Operator: `=`

Sets the value of a variable.

```js
var age; // After this line, `age` is undefined.
var age = 30;
```

------

### Arithmetic Operators

- `+` - addition
- `-` - subtraction
- `/` - division
- `*` - multiplication

```js
var sum = 5 + 4;
```

------

### String Operators

- `+` - concatenation

```js
var name = 'John ' + 'Doe';
```

------

### Increment Operator

- Adds 1 to a number.

The following two expressions are equivalent:

```js
i = i + 1;
i++;
```

------

### Decrement Operator

- Subtracts 1 from a number.

The following two expressions are equivalent:

```js
i = i - 1;
i--;
```

------

## Conditionals

------

### If Statements

```js
if (2 + 2 = 4) {
  alert('I did some math!');
}
```

------

### If Statements

- Condition goes in parentheses.
- Code goes inside curly braces.
- Code only runs if condition evaluates to `true`.

------

## Comparison Operators

- `==` - equal to
- **`===` - equal to <u>and</u> same type**
- `!=` - not equal to 
- **`!==` - not equal to <u>or</u> not same type** 

------

## Logical Operators

```js
var x = 5;
var y = 10;

if ( x < 10 && y < 10 ) {}  // false

if ( x >= 1 && y <= 10 ) {} // true

if ( x == 5 || y == 5 ) {}  // true

if ( x > 10 || y < 10 ) {}  // false
```

------

### Logical Operators

- Can combine conditionals.
- AND: `&&`
- OR: `||`

------

### AND Operator: `&&`

Requires conditionals on both sides to be true.

------

### OR Operator: `||`

Requires at least one conditional on either side to be true.

------

### NOT Operator: `!`

Reverses the boolean result of a condition.

```js
var month = 'Feb';
if (month != 'Feb') {} // Returns false
```

------

### Else If

- Creates a new conditional after an `if` statement.
- Evaluated if the original statement is false.
- Multiple `else if` blocks can be used.

------

### Else

- Creates a new block that runs if all previous `if` and `else if` blocks are false.
- Only one `else` is allowed per `if` statement.

------

### Else / Else If Example

```js
var x = 5;
if ( x == 0 ) {
    alert('X is 0');
} else if (x > 5 ) {
    alert('X is greater than 5');
} else if ( x < 5 ) {
    alert('X is less than 5');
} else {
    alert('X must be 5');
}
```

------

## Functions

- Blocks of code designed to perform a particular task.
- Javascript has many **built in functions**
- You can also write your own.

------

### Function Syntax

Defined with the `function` keyword, followed by a function name, followed by parentheses ().

- The code to be executed by the function is placed inside curly brackets: {}

------

### Function Names

- Function names can contain:
  - letters
  - numbers
  - underscores
  - dollar signs
- Same rules as variables.

------

### Function Parameters

- You can add parameters inside the parentheses.
- Parameters are optional.
- Add as many as you want.

```js
function myFunction(name) {
  alert("Hello " + name + "!");
}
```

------

### Calling Functions

Call a function by using the name of the function, passing parameters if needed:

```js
alert('testing!');
```

------

### Return Statements

When JavaScript reaches a return statement, the function will stop executing.

- Functions often compute a return value.
- The return value is "returned" back to the "caller".
- Return value can be saved to a variable or used directly.

```js
var x = sum(5, 4);
function sum(a, b) { return a + b; }
```

------

### Javascript Functions Example

```js
function toCelsius(fahrenheit) {
  return (5/9) * (fahrenheit - 32);
}

var temperatureF = 80;
if (preferencesCelsius == true) {
  var text = "The temperature is " + toCelsius(temperatureF) + " degrees celsius";
} else {
  var text = "The temperature is " + temperatureF + " degrees fahrenheit";
}
```

------

### <u>Functions Are Objects!</u>

------

## Javascript Arrays

- Used to store a list of values.
- Created like a normal variable, with values are wrapped in square brackets [ ].

```js
var cars = ["Saab", "Volvo", "BMW"];
```

------

### Accessing Array Values

Particular values are accessed by the *variable name* followed by the *key you want to access* in square brackets.

- The key is the index location of the value you want.
- Keys start with 0 for the first value.

```js
var text = "The first car in my garage is a " + cars[0];
```

------

## Javascript Objects

Variables that have multiple named values.

- Created like other variables.
- Values are wrapped in curly brackets { }.
- Each value has a name, followed by a colon and then a value.

```js
var car = {type:"Fiat", model:"500", color:"white"};
```

------

### Object Properties

Accessed using the object name, a period, and then the name of the value you want to access.

```js
var text = "The car is a " + car.type;
```

------

### Methods

Functions that are attached to objects and perform some action on them.

- Call methods like this: `objectName.methodName()`

```js
var user = {
  firstName: "John",
  lastName: "Smith",
  fullName: function() {return this.firstName + " " + this.lastName;}
}
var text = "The user's full name is: " + user.fullName();
```

------

## Built-In Methods

Javascript provides many useful methods.

------

### String Built-In Methods

- `.length()`: find the length
- `.search()`: find a <u>string within a string</u>
- `.substr()`: return a portion of a string (substring)

------

### Array Built-In Methods

- `.toString()`: <u>convert</u> to a comma separated list (i.e. "Volvo, Saab, BMW").
- `.length()`: get the number of elements in the array.
- `.sort()`: sort the array.

------

## For Loops

- Run a block of code multiple times.
- Start with the `for` keyword.
- Defined using 3 statements.
- Allow you to **specify the number of times a loop should run.**

------

### For Loop Statements

- Statement 1: runs at start of loop; used to initialize a <u>counter</u> variable.
  - `i = 0;`
- Statement 2: checked each time loop is run; loop continues running if it evaluates to true.
  - Loop stops when it evaluates as false.
  - `i < 5;`
- Statement 3: runs after each loop. Used to increment the counter variable.
  - `i++`

------

### For Loop Examples

```js
for (i = 0; i <= 10; i++) {
  console.log(i); // Prints 0-10
}
var cars = ["Volvo","BMW","Saab"];
for (i = 0; i < cars.length(); i++) {
  console.log(cars[i]);
}
```

------

## While Loops

Loops through a block of code as long as a specified condition is true.

- Only accepts one conditional.
- Does not increment a counter.

```js
var i = 0;
while (i < 10) {
  console.log(i);
  i++;
}
```

------

### While Loop Example

```js
var snakeEyes = false;
var counter = 0;
while (snakeEyes == false) {
    var first = 1 + Math.floor(Math.random() * 6);
    var second = 1 + Math.floor(Math.random() * 6);
    counter ++;
    if (first == 1 && second == 1) {
        snakeEyes = true;
}
}
console.log("It took "+counter+" tries to get snake eyes!");
```

------

# Testing Javascript

- `alert()`
- `console.log()`
- Dev Tools debugger

------

## `alert()`

Creates a pop-up window Can be given text to be included in the pop-up.

**Note: do not use this on a real website, unless it is for a very important notification!**

```js
alert("The value of variable i is: " + i);
```

------

## `console.log()`

Sends the value passed to the javascript console in your browser.

- Dev Tools -> Console tab

```js
console.log("The value of variable i is: " + i);
```

